frontend/docs/backend/continuous_integration.mdx, before:

---
name: Continuous integration
menu: Backend
---

# Github Actions workflows

We're using Github Actions for CI purposes. The configuration can be found in `.github/workflows`.

## Tests workflow

Runs on every push, except when pushing `develop` and `master`. Supports manual dispatch. Consists of 2 jobs:
- `RSpec` for Rails tests
- `front_end` For node + front end

Please note: The reason this workflow does not run when pushing to `develop` and `master` is because it will run anyway when pushing to those branches as part of the deploy workflows described below, which have a dependency on a successful build. Unfortunately, test jobs definitions are currently duplicated across worflows, I haven't found a solution for this.

## Code review workflow

Runs on every push. Consists of 3 jobs:
- `RuboCop` - runs the ruby linter
- `Brakeman` - runs the ruby security vulnerability checks
- `Front end checks` Runs js linter tests + verifies front end build

## Documentation workflow

Runs on every push to `develop`. Supports manual dispatch. Consists of 2 jobs:
- DB and API docs - builds DB and API documentation & publishes to GH Pages
- FE and BE docs - builds documentation in `frontend/docs` & publishes to Surge [TODO: this is broken, token lost]

## Auto deploy develop
Runs on every push to `develop`. Supports manual dispatch. Uses Capistrano. Consists of 4 jobs:
- `front_end`, Runs tests + verifies front end build
- `RSpec`
- `Deploy to staging`, depends on `RSpec`
- `Deploy to sandbox`, depends on `RSpec`

## Auto deploy master
Runs on every push to `master`. Supports manual dispatch. Uses Capistrano. Consists of 4 jobs:
- `front_end`, Runs tests + verifies front end build
- `RSpec`
- `Deploy to demo`, depends on `RSpec`
- `Deploy to indonesiademo`, depends on `RSpec`

## Deploy production
Available only as manual dispatch. Uses Capistrano. Consists of 3 jobs:
- `front_end`, Runs tests + verifies front end build
- `RSpec`
- `Deploy production`, depends on `RSpec`

# About setting up deploy workflows

Based on instructions for the [Capistrano deploy action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/capistrano-deploy).

A naming convention is applied to differentiate between environments. For example, these are instructions for setting up auto deploy on staging:

- [on staging] `ssh-keygen -q -N "" -f ~/.ssh/gh_deploy`
- [on staging] `cat ~/.ssh/gh_deploy.pub >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys`
- Add the public key `~/.ssh/gh_deploy.pub` to [Github Deploy keys](https://github.com/Vizzuality/trase/settings/keys)
- Generate a password to encrypt the key and store it in [Github Actions secrets](https://github.com/Vizzuality/trase/settings/secrets/actions) and in LastPass as `STAGING_DEPLOY_ENC_KEY`
- [on staging] `openssl enc -aes-256-cbc -md sha512 -salt -in ~/.ssh/gh_deploy -out staging_gh_deploy_enc -k [STAGING_DEPLOY_ENC_KEY] -a`
- Add `staging_gh_deploy_enc` to the repository at `config/deploy/encrypted_keys`

Commit message:

Make deploy dependent on front_end job

frontend/docs/backend/continuous_integration.mdx, after:

---
name: Continuous integration
menu: Backend
---

# Github Actions workflows

We're using Github Actions for CI purposes. The configuration can be found in `.github/workflows`.

## Tests workflow

Runs on every push, except when pushing `develop` and `master`. Supports manual dispatch. Consists of 2 jobs:
- `rspec` for Rails tests
- `front_end` For node + front end

Please note: The reason this workflow does not run when pushing to `develop` and `master` is because it will run anyway when pushing to those branches as part of the deploy workflows described below, which have a dependency on a successful build. Unfortunately, test jobs definitions are currently duplicated across worflows, I haven't found a solution for this.

## Code review workflow

Runs on every push. Consists of 3 jobs:
- `RuboCop` - runs the ruby linter
- `Brakeman` - runs the ruby security vulnerability checks
- `Front end checks` Runs js linter tests + verifies front end build

## Documentation workflow

Runs on every push to `develop`. Supports manual dispatch. Consists of 2 jobs:
- DB and API docs - builds DB and API documentation & publishes to GH Pages
- FE and BE docs - builds documentation in `frontend/docs` & publishes to Surge [TODO: this is broken, token lost]

## Auto deploy develop
Runs on every push to `develop`. Supports manual dispatch. Uses Capistrano. Consists of 4 jobs:
- `front_end`, Runs tests + verifies front end build
- `rspec`
- `Deploy to staging`, depends on `rspec` and `front_end`
- `Deploy to sandbox`, depends on `rspec` and `front_end`

## Auto deploy master
Runs on every push to `master`. Supports manual dispatch. Uses Capistrano. Consists of 4 jobs:
- `front_end`, Runs tests + verifies front end build
- `rspec`
- `Deploy to demo`, depends on `rspec` and `front_end`
- `Deploy to indonesiademo`, depends on `rspec` and `front_end`

## Deploy production
Available only as manual dispatch. Uses Capistrano. Consists of 3 jobs:
- `front_end`, Runs tests + verifies front end build
- `rspec`
- `Deploy production`, depends on `rspec` and `front_end`

# About setting up deploy workflows

Based on instructions for the [Capistrano deploy action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/capistrano-deploy).

A naming convention is applied to differentiate between environments. For example, these are instructions for setting up auto deploy on staging:

- [on staging] `ssh-keygen -q -N "" -f ~/.ssh/gh_deploy`
- [on staging] `cat ~/.ssh/gh_deploy.pub >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys`
- Add the public key `~/.ssh/gh_deploy.pub` to [Github Deploy keys](https://github.com/Vizzuality/trase/settings/keys)
- Generate a password to encrypt the key and store it in [Github Actions secrets](https://github.com/Vizzuality/trase/settings/secrets/actions) and in LastPass as `STAGING_DEPLOY_ENC_KEY`
- [on staging] `openssl enc -aes-256-cbc -md sha512 -salt -in ~/.ssh/gh_deploy -out staging_gh_deploy_enc -k [STAGING_DEPLOY_ENC_KEY] -a`
- Add `staging_gh_deploy_enc` to the repository at `config/deploy/encrypted_keys`
