frontend/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
name: Getting started
route: /
order: 1
---

# Trase

[Trase](http://supplychains.trase.earth) brings unprecedented transparency to commodity supply chains revealing new pathways towards achieving a deforestation-free economy.

<img src="public/trase-screenshot.png" alt="Trase image" width="800" />

## Project structure

This repository contains the source code for the website in two technically independent applications:

- `/frontend` contains the frontend application, including a dedicated nodejs server (for dev purposes only);
- `/` contains the Rails 5.x API that serves data to the above mentioned frontend application.

While technically independent, the frontend application is heavily dependent on the API spec served by the rails application.

## Requirements

### API

- Ruby 2.6.3 and RubyGems (recommended installation via rvm)
- [Bundler](http://bundler.io/)
- PostgreSQL 11 with `intarray`, `tablefunc` and `postgres_fdw` extensions
- redis >= 4.1.0
- go 1.14 (for mbtile server)
- wget
- cron

### Frontend

- Nodejs 8.2+

## Local setup

### API

We recommend managing your Ruby installation through [rvm](https://github.com/rvm/rvm). Ensure `bundler` gem is installed.

1. Install ruby libraries

   `bundle install`

2. Configure the environment

   Copy `.env.sample` to `.env` and replace the values accordingly. See the Configuration section below for more information.

3. Create the database

   Create an empty database in PostgreSQL and then [import a stable database version](docs-backend-data-export-import). If it's an earlier version than the current schema, run the migrations:

   `rake db:migrate`

4. Start the API

   `rails server`

5. Start background job processing

- `redis-server`
- `bundle exec sidekiq`

### Frontend

1. `cd` into the `frontend` folder

2. Copy `.env.sample` to `.env` and replace the values accordingly. See the Configuration section below for more information.

3. Install dependencies: Don't use npm, install yarn if needed (https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install)

   `yarn install`

4) Start the development server

   `yarn start`

## Configuration

The project's main configuration values can be set using [environment variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable) in the `.env` file.

```
SECRET_KEY_BASE: Rails secret key. Use a random value
API_HOST: e.g. http://localhost:3000, https://staging.trase.earth
POSTGRES_HOSTNAME: Hostname of your database server
POSTGRES_DATABASE: Name of your data database
POSTGRES_USERNAME: Username used to connect to your PostgreSQL server instance
POSTGRES_PASSWORD: Password used to connect to your PostgreSQL server instance
POSTGRES_PORT: Port used to connect to your PostgreSQL server instance
MAILCHIMP_API_KEY: API key for Mailchimp mailing service
MAILCHIMP_LIST_ID: List ID for Mailchimp mailing service
APPSIGNAL_PUSH_API_KEY: Appsignal API key for tracking exceptions
APPSIGNAL_APP_NAME: Appsignal App name, should be "Trase"
APPSIGNAL_APP_ENV: Appsignal environment name
NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY: New Relic license key
GOLD_MASTER_HOST_V3:
TRASE_LOCAL_MIRROR_SCHEMA=main_mirror # this schema in local database where remote tables are restored
TRASE_LOCAL_SCHEMA=public # this schema in local database where target tables are
API_HOST=http://localhost:3000 # base url of API
INSTANCE_NAME= # string to uniquely identify instance as source of db dump, e.g. staging
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
AWS_REGION=
S3_BUCKET_NAME= # name of bucket where db dumps are stored
```

### Frontend

```
PORT: port used by the development web server. defaults to 8081
NODE_ENV: environment used by the nodejs tasks
API_V3_URL: URL of the data API V3
UNIT_LAYERS_API_URL: URL of the vector tiles of the unit layers // Only sandbox and production are available
UNIT_LAYERS_DATA_ENV: Environment for the carto table that stores the unit layers data
API_CMS_URL: URL of the homepage stories API
API_STORY_CONTENT: URL of the deep dive stories API
API_SOCIAL: URL of the tweets API
GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_KEY: API key for Google Analytics
DATA_FORM_ENDPOINT: end point to send form values in Data page
PDF_DOWNLOAD_URL: end point to download a PDF snapshot of the page
PERF_TEST: when set to true, enables performance evaluation mode. Only supported outside of production environments. See https://github.com/garbles/why-did-you-update for more info.
REDUX_LOGGER_ENABLED: when set to true, enables logging redux actions on the browser's console. Only supported outside of production environments.
SHOW_WORLD_MAP_IN_EXPLORE: if set to true, explore section will have the 2 step behavior. Setting it to false will only show the context-specific step.
ENABLE_DASHBOARDS: if set to true, the dashboards section will be visible to end users.
ALWAYS_DISPLAY_DASHBOARD_INFO: if set to true, the dashboards info modal will always be displayed. If set to false, it will only be displayed for new users.
CARTO_ACCOUNT: name of the carto account where the named maps layers are hosted.
CARTO_TOKEN: token to authenticate into carto for the named maps creation.
MAPBOX_TOKEN: token to authenticate into mapbox to render the map.
NAMED_MAPS_ENV: named maps environment to use inside the app.
GFW_WIDGETS_BASE_URL: URL to load GFW widgets from. You probably want to use `www.globalforestwatch.org` here.
ENABLE_LEGACY_TOOL_SEARCH: if set to false the search algorithm in the tool will use `indexOf(query)` instead of fuzzy search.
DISABLE_PROFILES: if set to true, the profiles section will not be visible to end users.
```

If you are using the included development server, you can set those variables in the `.env` file (use the included `.env.sample` as an example)

## Tests

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Vizzuality/trase.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Vizzuality/trase)

We use jest and puppeteer for the end to end tests. There are some mocks for the requests in the puppeteer/mocks folder. Every slash (/) and params (? &) are replaced by a hyphen in the file name. i.e:
api-v3-contexts-year-2015 will mock api/v3/contexts?year=2015

The tests have to be run while the js server is running

Run all tests with:

```
yarn test
```

Run only unit tests:

```
yarn unit
```

Run only end to end:

```
yarn e2e
```

We are using Puppeteer-Jest for the End to end tests, also [Polly](https://netflix.github.io/pollyjs) to record and replay stub interactions.
The recorded interactions will be saved in the recordings folder inside tests. In the future we might want to make a script to remove this folder when we want to update them.
Right now we can do it manually.
Also we are using [Puppeteer recorder](https://github.com/checkly/puppeteer-recorder) to record the actions and translate them into code. In the configuration specify the 'data-test' custom data attribute and use it in every element that you want to use.

To update image snapshots due to changes in the page and if test is failing:

```
yarn e2e -- -u
```

### API

```
RAILS_ENV=test rake db:drop db:create db:structure:load
bundle exec rspec spec
```

You may also want to know about API [gold master tests](docs-backend-gold-master-tests) and [load tests](docs-backend-load-tests).

### Frontend

Running `yarn test` will launch jest testing environment and run all tests that match `*.test.js` filename inside the `frontend/scripts` folder.

## Deployment

We use [Capistrano](http://capistranorb.com/) as a deployment tool, which deploys both API and frontend application simultaneously.

To deploy, simply use:

```
cap <staging|production> deploy
```

## Sitemaps

We are using [Sitemap generator](https://github.com/kjvarga/sitemap_generator).
The sitemap config is located in config/sitemap.rb.
To refresh the sitemap and ping Google and Bing bots use:

```
rake sitemap:refresh
```

To do it without pinging the bots:

```
rake sitemap:refresh:no_ping
```

The sitemap is refreshed automatically in each release.

## Git hooks

This project includes a set of git hooks that you may find useful

- Run `bundle install` when loading `Gemfile.lock` modifications from remotes
- Run `yarn install` when loading `frontend/package.json` modifications from remotes
- Receive a warning when loading `.env.sample` or `frontend/.env.sample` modifications from remotes
- Run `Rubocop` and `JS Lint` before committing

To enable then, simply execute once: `bin/git/init-hooks`

## Documentation

### Back end

#### API

- [internal API](https://vizzuality.github.io/trase/api/trase_internal_api.html)
- [public API](https://vizzuality.github.io/trase/api/trase_public_api.html)

#### Database

- [full schema](https://vizzuality.github.io/trase/db/all_tables/)
- ["blue tables" schema](https://vizzuality.github.io/trase/db/blue_tables/index.html)
- [how to regenerate docs](docs-backend-automated-documentation)
- [Models snapshot](public/docs/erd.pdf)

#### More

- [Cache management](docs-backend-cache-management)
- [Background jobs](docs-backend-background-jobs)
- [Data update](docs-backend-data-update)
- [Copying databases between instances](docs-backend-data-export-import)

### Frontend

#### Lexicon

- Context: Model based on the association of one country and one commodity. eg. Brazil-Soy

```
+-------+             +-------+
|       |             |       |
|       |             |       |
+-------+ ---\        |       |
| node  |     \-------+-------+
+-------+--\  link    | node  |
|       |   \         |       |
|       |    \--------+-------+
|       |             |       |
+-------+             +-------+
  column                column

```

#### Links and Nodes flow for the tool

Links in the sankey are requested on the getToolLinksData fetch saga (flows endpoint)
The links are filtered by the selected node which is imported as an expanded node from the nodesPanel (see getExpandedAndExcludedNodes in nodes-panel.selectors)
This links contain the nodes on their path attribute and we fetch these nodes information afterwards to be able to show it (getToolNodesByLink)

### Translation

We are using transifex service imported with a script into the index.ejs template.
There have been some race conditions and bugs related to the loading of transifex: See transifex utils.

### Components playground

Online in: http://trase.surge.sh

#### Run locally

- Run `yarn storybook`
  It will be served on localhost:8081

#### Build

- Run `yarn build-storybook`

#### Deploy

- Install surge `yarn add -g surge`
- Run build
- Go to docs/dist folder
- Run surge `surge . trase.surge.sh`
- If asked for login use trase.vizzuality@gmail.com

#### More

- [Generating CARTO maps](docs-frontend-generating-carto-maps)
- [Serializing state to url](docs-frontend-serializing-state-to-url)
- [Map](docs-frontend-map)

## LICENSE

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Update documentation on feature tags

frontend/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
name: Getting started
route: /
order: 1
---

# Trase

[Trase](http://supplychains.trase.earth) brings unprecedented transparency to commodity supply chains revealing new pathways towards achieving a deforestation-free economy.

<img src="public/trase-screenshot.png" alt="Trase image" width="800" />

## Project structure

This repository contains the source code for the website in two technically independent applications:

- `/frontend` contains the frontend application, including a dedicated nodejs server (for dev purposes only);
- `/` contains the Rails 5.x API that serves data to the above mentioned frontend application.

While technically independent, the frontend application is heavily dependent on the API spec served by the rails application.

## Requirements

### API

- Ruby 2.6.3 and RubyGems (recommended installation via rvm)
- [Bundler](http://bundler.io/)
- PostgreSQL 11 with `intarray`, `tablefunc` and `postgres_fdw` extensions
- redis >= 4.1.0
- go 1.14 (for mbtile server)
- wget
- cron

### Frontend

- Nodejs 8.2+

## Local setup

### API

We recommend managing your Ruby installation through [rvm](https://github.com/rvm/rvm). Ensure `bundler` gem is installed.

1. Install ruby libraries

   `bundle install`

2. Configure the environment

   Copy `.env.sample` to `.env` and replace the values accordingly. See the Configuration section below for more information.

3. Create the database

   Create an empty database in PostgreSQL and then [import a stable database version](docs-backend-data-export-import). If it's an earlier version than the current schema, run the migrations:

   `rake db:migrate`

4. Start the API

   `rails server`

5. Start background job processing

- `redis-server`
- `bundle exec sidekiq`

### Frontend

1. `cd` into the `frontend` folder

2. Copy `.env.sample` to `.env` and replace the values accordingly. See the Configuration section below for more information.

3. Install dependencies: Don't use npm, install yarn if needed (https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install)

   `yarn install`

4) Start the development server

   `yarn start`

## Configuration

The project's main configuration values can be set using [environment variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable) in the `.env` file.

```
SECRET_KEY_BASE: Rails secret key. Use a random value
API_HOST: e.g. http://localhost:3000, https://staging.trase.earth
POSTGRES_HOSTNAME: Hostname of your database server
POSTGRES_DATABASE: Name of your data database
POSTGRES_USERNAME: Username used to connect to your PostgreSQL server instance
POSTGRES_PASSWORD: Password used to connect to your PostgreSQL server instance
POSTGRES_PORT: Port used to connect to your PostgreSQL server instance
MAILCHIMP_API_KEY: API key for Mailchimp mailing service
MAILCHIMP_LIST_ID: List ID for Mailchimp mailing service
APPSIGNAL_PUSH_API_KEY: Appsignal API key for tracking exceptions
APPSIGNAL_APP_NAME: Appsignal App name, should be "Trase"
APPSIGNAL_APP_ENV: Appsignal environment name
NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY: New Relic license key
GOLD_MASTER_HOST_V3:
TRASE_LOCAL_MIRROR_SCHEMA=main_mirror # this schema in local database where remote tables are restored
TRASE_LOCAL_SCHEMA=public # this schema in local database where target tables are
API_HOST=http://localhost:3000 # base url of API
INSTANCE_NAME= # string to uniquely identify instance as source of db dump, e.g. staging
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
AWS_REGION=
S3_BUCKET_NAME= # name of bucket where db dumps are stored
```

### Frontend

```
PORT: port used by the development web server. defaults to 8081
NODE_ENV: environment used by the nodejs tasks
API_V3_URL: URL of the data API V3
UNIT_LAYERS_API_URL: URL of the vector tiles of the unit layers // Only sandbox and production are available
UNIT_LAYERS_DATA_ENV: Environment for the carto table that stores the unit layers data
API_CMS_URL: URL of the homepage stories API
API_STORY_CONTENT: URL of the deep dive stories API
API_SOCIAL: URL of the tweets API
GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_KEY: API key for Google Analytics
DATA_FORM_ENDPOINT: end point to send form values in Data page
PDF_DOWNLOAD_URL: end point to download a PDF snapshot of the page
PERF_TEST: when set to true, enables performance evaluation mode. Only supported outside of production environments. See https://github.com/garbles/why-did-you-update for more info.
REDUX_LOGGER_ENABLED: when set to true, enables logging redux actions on the browser's console. Only supported outside of production environments.
CARTO_ACCOUNT: name of the carto account where the named maps layers are hosted.
CARTO_TOKEN: token to authenticate into carto for the named maps creation.
MAPBOX_TOKEN: token to authenticate into mapbox to render the map.
NAMED_MAPS_ENV: named maps environment to use inside the app.
GFW_WIDGETS_BASE_URL: URL to load GFW widgets from. You probably want to use `www.globalforestwatch.org` here.

// Feature tags

SHOW_WORLD_MAP_IN_EXPLORE: if set to true, explore section will have the 2 step behavior. Setting it to false will only show the context-specific step.
ENABLE_DASHBOARDS: if set to true, the dashboards section will be visible to end users.
ALWAYS_DISPLAY_DASHBOARD_INFO: if set to true, the dashboards info modal will always be displayed. If set to false, it will only be displayed for new users.
ENABLE_LEGACY_TOOL_SEARCH: if set to false the search algorithm in the tool will use `indexOf(query)` instead of fuzzy search.
DISABLE_PROFILES: if set to true, the profiles section will not be visible to end users.
USE_SERVICE_WORKER=Register service worker to cache the data on subsequent visits
DATA_DOWNLOAD_ENABLED=Enable data download in downloads page
ENABLE_INTERSECTION_OBSERVER=Enable showing content using intersection observer
ENABLE_VERSIONING=Enable versioning modal on tool
ENABLE_TOOL_PANEL=
ENABLE_LOGISTIC_LAYERS_TAB=Enable logistic layers tab on layer selection on tool
ENABLE_GOOGLE_TRANSLATE=Enable google translation
ENABLE_POPUP=Enable disclaimer pop-up on the whole app
```

If you are using the included development server, you can set those variables in the `.env` file (use the included `.env.sample` as an example)

## Tests

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Vizzuality/trase.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Vizzuality/trase)

We use jest and puppeteer for the end to end tests. There are some mocks for the requests in the puppeteer/mocks folder. Every slash (/) and params (? &) are replaced by a hyphen in the file name. i.e:
api-v3-contexts-year-2015 will mock api/v3/contexts?year=2015

The tests have to be run while the js server is running

Run all tests with:

```
yarn test
```

Run only unit tests:

```
yarn unit
```

Run only end to end:

```
yarn e2e
```

We are using Puppeteer-Jest for the End to end tests, also [Polly](https://netflix.github.io/pollyjs) to record and replay stub interactions.
The recorded interactions will be saved in the recordings folder inside tests. In the future we might want to make a script to remove this folder when we want to update them.
Right now we can do it manually.
Also we are using [Puppeteer recorder](https://github.com/checkly/puppeteer-recorder) to record the actions and translate them into code. In the configuration specify the 'data-test' custom data attribute and use it in every element that you want to use.

To update image snapshots due to changes in the page and if test is failing:

```
yarn e2e -- -u
```

### API

```
RAILS_ENV=test rake db:drop db:create db:structure:load
bundle exec rspec spec
```

You may also want to know about API [gold master tests](docs-backend-gold-master-tests) and [load tests](docs-backend-load-tests).

### Frontend

Running `yarn test` will launch jest testing environment and run all tests that match `*.test.js` filename inside the `frontend/scripts` folder.

## Deployment

We use [Capistrano](http://capistranorb.com/) as a deployment tool, which deploys both API and frontend application simultaneously.

To deploy, simply use:

```
cap <staging|production> deploy
```

## Sitemaps

We are using [Sitemap generator](https://github.com/kjvarga/sitemap_generator).
The sitemap config is located in config/sitemap.rb.
To refresh the sitemap and ping Google and Bing bots use:

```
rake sitemap:refresh
```

To do it without pinging the bots:

```
rake sitemap:refresh:no_ping
```

The sitemap is refreshed automatically in each release.

## Git hooks

This project includes a set of git hooks that you may find useful

- Run `bundle install` when loading `Gemfile.lock` modifications from remotes
- Run `yarn install` when loading `frontend/package.json` modifications from remotes
- Receive a warning when loading `.env.sample` or `frontend/.env.sample` modifications from remotes
- Run `Rubocop` and `JS Lint` before committing

To enable then, simply execute once: `bin/git/init-hooks`

## Documentation

### Back end

#### API

- [internal API](https://vizzuality.github.io/trase/api/trase_internal_api.html)
- [public API](https://vizzuality.github.io/trase/api/trase_public_api.html)

#### Database

- [full schema](https://vizzuality.github.io/trase/db/all_tables/)
- ["blue tables" schema](https://vizzuality.github.io/trase/db/blue_tables/index.html)
- [how to regenerate docs](docs-backend-automated-documentation)
- [Models snapshot](public/docs/erd.pdf)

#### More

- [Cache management](docs-backend-cache-management)
- [Background jobs](docs-backend-background-jobs)
- [Data update](docs-backend-data-update)
- [Copying databases between instances](docs-backend-data-export-import)

### Frontend

#### Lexicon

- Context: Model based on the association of one country and one commodity. eg. Brazil-Soy

```
+-------+             +-------+
|       |             |       |
|       |             |       |
+-------+ ---\        |       |
| node  |     \-------+-------+
+-------+--\  link    | node  |
|       |   \         |       |
|       |    \--------+-------+
|       |             |       |
+-------+             +-------+
  column                column

```

#### Links and Nodes flow for the tool

Links in the sankey are requested on the getToolLinksData fetch saga (flows endpoint)
The links are filtered by the selected node which is imported as an expanded node from the nodesPanel (see getExpandedAndExcludedNodes in nodes-panel.selectors)
This links contain the nodes on their path attribute and we fetch these nodes information afterwards to be able to show it (getToolNodesByLink)

### Translation

We are using transifex service imported with a script into the index.ejs template.
There have been some race conditions and bugs related to the loading of transifex: See transifex utils.

### Components playground

Online in: http://trase.surge.sh

#### Run locally

- Run `yarn storybook`
  It will be served on localhost:8081

#### Build

- Run `yarn build-storybook`

#### Deploy

- Install surge `yarn add -g surge`
- Run build
- Go to docs/dist folder
- Run surge `surge . trase.surge.sh`
- If asked for login use trase.vizzuality@gmail.com

#### More

- [Generating CARTO maps](docs-frontend-generating-carto-maps)
- [Serializing state to url](docs-frontend-serializing-state-to-url)
- [Map](docs-frontend-map)

## LICENSE

[MIT](LICENSE)
